if you're not optimizing your bios
you're leaving FPS on the table and
adding input delay without even knowing
it this is the difference between stock
settings and a properly tuned bios
smoother gameplay lower latency and more
FPS and today I'm going to show you
exactly how to unlock your cpu's full
potential for the fastest most
responsive gaming experience possible so
let's get right into it all right
everyone so whenever you're in the Bios
and you want to get this done all we're
going to do find the tab where you can
load optimized defaults or it might be a
button called load UEFI default you're
going to click enter on this and then
press okay and the reason we're doing
this is just because you might have some
settings from the past or you might have
just done some weird things in your bios
or it could be just some settings are
already changed and you don't even know
it and this could cause issues later on
so once you've done that we're going to
go to extreme tweaker and for the
purposes of this video we're just going
to be using XMP we're not going to be
doing anything crazy before you pretty
much reset everything even though you
might have already done so you want to
make sure that you save a profile just
in case of whatever you had done last to
your bios this is just a completely
stock bios optimization we're not going
to be doing any sort of overclocking so
first xmp1 is the one that you're going
to be using xmp2 pretty much just Lads
the entire profile of your memory sticks
on the motherboard xmp1 loads some of it
and then just trains the rest of the
memory itself so I recommend xmp1
because the motherboard tends to set it
a little bit lower and lower is always
better as long as it's stable now XMP
the speed might be a little bit too high
for your motherboard 7200 on this
motherboard Works absolutely fine with
no issues however for you 7,200 on your
specific motherboard might not be stable
and you might have to drop it down to
for example 6,800 or 6,400 so that's for
ddr5 for ddr4 it's kind of the same
thing so if you're on 4,000 MHz ddr4 you
might have to drop it down to 3,800 or
do some manual tuning on your own time
to figure out what causes 4,000 MHz to
be stable but for the purposes of this
video just set it to something that was
going to be guaranteed to be stable on
your motherboard regardless of what you
do so set it to that and adaptive boost
technology always disable this and as
soon as multicore enhancement set this
to enabl to remove all limits however if
you have a really bad CPU Cooler I would
recommend enable to remove all limits
90° and what this is going to do if
you're running a stress test or if
you're running a heavy workload it'll
just cap it at 90° and start lowering
the CPU speed down so it doesn't go
above that but since I have a very good
cooler I'm going to set to enable to
remove all limits without that setting
then I'm going to scroll down and
performance core ratio for the purposes
of this video and any 12th 13th and 14th
gen CPU you want to set this to sync all
cores and all core ratio limit you want
to set it to your CPU speed that it
normally runs at so I'm going to list
just a bunch of CPUs and what they
typically run at so for 14900 K you're
going to set this to 57 for 13900 KS
you're going to set this to 56 just like
me and if you have a 139k or KF you're
going to set it to 54 4 and if you have
a 13700 K or KF 53 a 14700 K or KF is
going to 54 make sure to set to those
values don't set it higher don't set it
lower just set it to those values or
whatever the PS usually run at for the
purposes of this video we're not going
to be overclocking if you want to learn
how to overclock your inel CPU go to the
previous video with these same exact
settings and you'll be getting good
overclock that will give you more FPS
and better input delay scroll down Dam
timing control as you guys can see there
are some stuff that you can change in
here that I've shown in the past and
that is going to be dram RS to RS delay
L and dram RS to RS delay s you can set
these both to a if you're on 32 GB of
RAM if you're on 48 GB of RAM you're
going to set the first one that ends in
L to 12 and the second one to 8 then you
can scroll down and dram refresh inter
roll you can usually set this to 3276
then that's pretty much all you have to
do in this page and you just go back
then we're going to scroll down thermal
velocity boost I don't really recommend
using any of these and you can just
disable all of them just like so scroll
down go to Tweakers paradise and what I
recommend is disabling the spread
Spectrum options as these can cause some
extra latency then ring down bin same
thing here disable that and bclk aware
adaptive voltage this really messes up
with overclocking so you want to disable
it if you're going to be overclocking in
the future but either way I would
recommend just disabling it completely
then go to the advanced Tab and go to
platform misconfiguration you're going
to pretty much disable everything in
here cuz every thing in here is PCI
Express power saving options now the
goal with optimizing our bios is we're
disabling any power saving options or
any useless options that can cause
stutters FPS drops and higher latency
then go back go to CPU configuration and
now for almost everyone disable enta
virtualization technology unless you
need virtualization based security
enabled for whatever reason but for most
of us we don't really need it so you can
just disable that active efficient cores
if you just play fortnite valerant and
some of these games that only scale with
performance scores you could completely
just disable this and set it to zero
however if you play Call of Duty you
want to set this to all because eor do
help a little bit whenever it comes to
Call of Duty you get around 30 to 40
more FPS on the CPU side in the
Benchmark just from having e cores
enabled so if you play Call of Duty or
you play a whole variety of games
practically better to leave efficiency
cores on now if you are on Windows 10
just completely disable them because
Windows 10 doesn't really work that well
with effic cores but if you're on
Windows 11 you can set it to all and you
should be fine but for the purposes of
this video I'm going to set it to zero
because most of my followers are playing
fortnite and valerant and some people do
end up playing some Call of Duty here
and there now hyperthreading you can
pretty much disable this unless you're
going to be doing some heavy workloads
that actually need two threads per
activated core but if you just care
about latency and you care about input
delay and you just care about the
maximum FPS and performance in gaming
you can just disable this now just keep
in in mind stuff like rendering stuff
and blender and all this other stuff
that requires more threads and more
hores will be diminished due to
disabling the ecores and disabling hyper
printing but this is going to lower your
temperatures and it's going to provide
lower latency more FPS potentially in a
lot of competitive games and you're just
going to notice a lot more snappier
feeling in games then go to CPU power
management control boot performance mode
turbo performance Intel speed step if
you're on ASRock you want to keep this
enabled however for every other metal
board you could disable it Intel Speed
Shift technology disable it turbo mode
obviously leave that enabled CPU C
States if you have a really bad CPU
Cooler and leave this on auto do not
disable it however if you have a decent
CPU Cooler and it can handle your CPU as
stock frequencies without any issues you
can disable it and thermal monitor same
thing here as CPU States if you have a
bad CPU Cooler leave this enabled if you
have a good CPU Cooler you just leave it
on disabled then go back by pressing
escape twice go to system agent
configuration
same thing as entel virtualization
technology if you don't use
virtualization based security for
valerant or Counter Strike you can just
disable this and you don't have any
issues then go back go to Thunderbolt
configuration pcie tunneling over USB 4S
completely useless for legally 99% of
you so you can just dis save this then
go back go to PCI subsystem settings
above 4G decoding and resizable bar
support doesn't really do anything in a
lot of games that everyone plays now I
know a lot of these YouTube videoos
they're like oh here's how you can get
free performance from the video they've
never tested the setting properly and
from my testing that I'm going to throw
up right here you can see that resizable
bar reduces your 1% lows and. 1% lows by
100 in fortnite Now Call of Duty players
already know that this setting kind of
just messes up their FPS but for guys
that play fortnite valerant and some of
these other games they have no idea that
it actually messes up the 1% lows so
disable this setting it's not good to
use unless you know for fact 100%
certainty that the game you're playing
which is could be like Assassin's Creed
or Tomb Raider some of these single
player games that you know for a fact
that give you more performance with the
setting on then leave it on but for 99%
of you that play competitive games and
most popular games out there just
disable it it has no reason to be
enabled just disable resize above bar
support and above 4G de coding make sure
you disable both not just one or the
other then go back go to USB
configuration xhc handoff make sure this
is set to enabled especially if you're
going to be using a mouse that is 8,000
HZ or 4,000 HZ go back scroll down to
the bottom go to onboard devices
configuration and here's where you could
potentially disable some of the extra
things that come with your motherboard
that you potentially don't need so USB
audio I'm going to disable it cuz I just
use a headset with a dongle that plugs
into the motherboard not really a audio
jacks or any of that sort tell L if you
have a network adapter that plugs into
the PCI Express Lane you can disable a
this however for all of you leave this
enabled USB power delivery and soft off
State this pretty much disables the USB
power whenever your PC's turned off so
you can't charge your phone or whatever
whenever it's turned off so for all of
you just pretty much disable it it's
pretty much useless Wi-Fi if you don't
use Wi-Fi on your PC at all disable this
however in case you need Wi-Fi for
whatever reason in the future just
remember that you did disable it in BIOS
Bluetooth controller same thing here if
you don't use Bluetooth you can pretty
much this to disabled and you're pretty
much good to go LED lighting if you you
don't want RGB working on your PC you
can turn this off and this will lower
your temperatures in a lot of areas on
the motherboard and this could
potentially reduce your Emi and you
could get lower input delay just by
turning this off then scroll down as
media controllers these are extra USB
controllers that you do not need so if
you don't use certain USB ports and you
can just switch the USB ports around for
your mouse and keyboard or controller
you can just disable both of these or
however money that you've got and you
should be good to go then GNA device
just make sure that's disabled as well
then go to Tool and you're going to go
to assus Armory crate you're going to
pretty much disable this as this is not
needed and you might have different
names for whatever motherboard you're
using it could be MSI driver utility
installer it could be gigabyte download
and install configuration or it could be
Auto driver installer for azron either
way just make sure these apps are
disabled because if they run in the
background they take a lot of memory a
lot of CPU it can cause a lot of
stutters and a lot of FPS drops that you
don't even know why they're happening it
could be just these applications running
in the background so disable them
they're not needed if they are needed
just find Alternatives that do not run
in the background like open RGB or
signal RGB then you're going to press
the back button if you have a way to
save this profile in your bios by going
to a su user profile or overclocking
profiles or user default profiles in
your bios make sure to save this because
just in case one day your PC decides to
reset reset the bios because of a power
outage you can just load this profile
instantly up and you'll be right back to
good performance and lower input delay
but that's going to be pretty much it
for the majority of the bio settings one
other extra thing that you could do is
go to Q fan control or the fan control
in your bios and set every single fan to
full speed and what this is going to do
is going to ensure that your CPU is not
going to overheat for whatever reason
along with your RAM along with your
graphics card along with all these other
components in your PC that could
potentially benefit from your fans
pulling more air through the front of
the make sure you have AIO pump and any
pump in your PC set to full speed that's
really important then press exit and
again we're going to save this as a
profile for example you would just save
it as optimized or for example silly
bios and then save it on a profile I'm
not going to save it because I already
have it saved so we should be chilling
so now what I'm going to do is I'm going
to load the profile for my second
profile but other than that all you have
to do now is just click save changes and
reset and you will notice that pretty
much your your PC is going to take a
little bit longer to restart because you
pretty much reset all of the BIOS and
you just redid it from scratch so now
you're going to get better performance
lower input delay and you're not going
to have issues with running into crashes
or any of these weird things that could
happen potentially because of past to
done now that's going to be pretty much
it for this video If you guys enjoyed it
leave a like subscribe and make sure to
comment down below if this helped you if
you guys want this all done for you
along with CPU overclock Ram
overclocking GPU overclocking and a
custom optimized Windows where we go
through your whole entire computer and
pretty much optimize it then go to the
first link in your description and book
an ultimate PC optimization service with
the best of the best and we'll be
talking with you shortly hope you guys
enjoyed and I'll see you guys in the
next one peace